---
title: 'First Personal Website'
date: 2021-12-07
permalink: /posts/2021/12/blog-post-1/
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
tags:
  - diary
---

This is the first time I used html to write a personal website, of course it's also the first time I build up my own website although I would plan to do it a year ago. I don't have any knowledge about `HTML` before I make this website although it's very similar to markdown language. The initial plan is to make the web academic and research-oriented. When I was working on it, however, I realized why not showcase some beautiful pictures I took and post some interesting stuff in my life, which would be awesome and make this website not "dry". \

<!--more-->

This web is modified based on [Minimal Mistakes Jekyll Theme](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io). At the beginning of this story, I tried to look for some templates that don't need to put any codes on just to make my life easy. I found a free open-source tool called Hugo Academic Theme, where people can simply choose a type of template and change some texts and add on some info. That's it and pretty easy! Multitaneous themes and templates will be available ff you would like to top up a bit. When I decided to use the Hugo theme, it just so happens that I came across this academic template on Github. The template looks very concise and clear when first saw it, which I think is a better choice for my research-webpage. So I started learning some basic HTML knowledge following by modifying the existing files to make my web happen, and it take me around two afternoons and nights. The result is very satisfying to me as I learned at least some knowledge of HTML and eventually completed the first website. What’s more, I also add some pictures in Portfolio after putting some research-related stuff and projects and hope you can enjoy them. XD
